If your child’s finger is fractured,
it means there is a crack
or break in the finger bone.
Common causes include
the finger hitting or being hit
by a hard object,
getting slammed in a door,
or falling onto the hand.
The break may involve the joint
where 2 finger bones meet
or the finger bone meets
the long bone in the hand.
If the fracture is at the growth plate
near the end of the bone,
bone growth can be affected,
and may require special X-rays
or other tests.
Young bones are more flexible
than an adult’s,
so a child’s bone may crack
or buckle without a clear break
instead of snapping like a dry stick.
A fractured finger may be treated with
a splint for 2 to 6 weeks.
Or it may only need to be taped
to the finger next to it,
called "buddy taping,"
without a splint.
Surgery may be needed if
the fracture is large or crooked.